[tense music playing]
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
[crowd chanting]
Where is Gabby?
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
[narrator] It's the viral
story that gripped a nation.
I love the van.
[narrator] A rising
social media star vanishes.
[woman] You need to
come out and tell us!
The story took on a whole new
life of its own.
[woman shouting]
Tell the truth!
People were just obsessed.
[narrator] What happens
when a perfect
online presence...
Me and Brian just got up
and got ready.
[narrator]
...hides a terrible secret.
Social media presents the most
romanticized version
of our lives possible.
Brian's doing
some morning yoga.
[narrator] This is the story
of the dark side
of viral fame.
Brian and Gabby
were seen arguing
in front of a grocery store.
[narrator]
And it's a cautionary tale
about the warning signs
of domestic violence.
The body cam video was a Gabby
I had never seen.
She was petrified.
[narrator] We reveal
never before seen footage
of Brian and Gabby's
last hours together.
We saw them on video.
walking into the store.
Domestic violence survivors
really zeroed in on this case.
[narrator]
And for the first time ever.
we hear from
the horse mounted unit
that searched for Gabby
in the wilds of Wyoming.
The clock
is literally ticking.
[Deputy Andrew Roundy]
First thing that caught my eye
was cloth fabric.
Did we really just find Gabby?
Is that really her?
[narrator] This is the story
as you've never
heard it before.
This is The Murder
of Gabby Petito:
What Really Happened.
[somber music playing]
Hello. hello.
And good morning.
[Kelley Vick] The world first
came to know Gabby Petito
through the sensationalized
story of this young
social media influencer
through the sensationalized
story of this young
social media influencer
who met a terrible fate
while traveling
with her fiance.
Brian Laundrie in 2021.
But before she went viral.
she was just a regular.
beautiful young Gen Z kid
growing up
in Blue Point. New York.
My name's Brian Entin.
I'm a senior
national correspondent
with NewsNation.
I've been covering
the Gabby Petito story
really since the beginning.
I've been covering
the Gabby Petito story
really since the beginning.
One thing that struck me
was how close her family was.
You know. with a lot of
divorced parents.
it's not always like that.
But her parents. even though
they're remarried.
remained very. very close.
[Asya Hayes] Gabby was
the type of person
where everybody
would gravitate towards.
She was someone who would
always throw in a good joke
in the middle of something.
make people laugh.
[Vick] Gabby graduates
from Bayport-Blue Point
High in 2017
[Vick] Gabby graduates
from Bayport-Blue Point
High in 2017
and although 90%
of her classmates
went right into college.
Gabby wanted to
find her own path
and think about college later.
[Brook Carpenter]
It was a very prestigious
high school in New York.
She was very intelligent.
Gabby was.
But I think that
she wanted to see
what else there was out there.
So she decides to work.
to start raising money
for what she really craves
which is adventure.
[Hayes] She said the world
always had a lot to offer.
And she wanted to get
to explore all of it.
So. she definitely had
intentions of traveling.
[Carpenter]
I was Gabby's manager
at a restaurant.
You always knew
when Gabby got to work.
Always.
The whole atmosphere changed
in the restaurant.
She was friends with everyone
at work. Everyone.
Gabby would just walk right up
and give you a hug
or tell you that
your hair still looked nice
at the end of the night.
or tell you that
your hair still looked nice
at the end of the night.
She was always trying to
make others happy
all the time.
By early 2019.
Gabby reconnects
with an old high school
friend. Brian Laundrie.
Gabby Petito
never goes outside.
[both laughing]
So when Brian and Gabby
first reconnect.
he's actually about to follow
his parents down to Florida
where they recently moved.
[Elaine Allen-Emrich]
Brian's parents
are business owners.
The family business
was food related machinery.
[Brian Entin]
The Laundries seemed
like nice people.
Hard working people.
So Brian and Gabby
did know each other
casually in high school.
but they never dated.
So their first official date
is March 2019.
which ends up
being a sushi dinner date.
[Vick] While they bonded
over a mutual love
of nature and art.
Gabby was into
healthiness and fitness.
And Brian was more of a loner
and really hard core
about the outdoors.
And it didn't seem like
Brian Laundrie really had
that many friends.
There weren't a lot of.
you know. best friends
or close friends from his past
that we were able
to come across.
But despite their differences.
Gabby and Brian move in
with his parents
in North Port. Florida.
[soft guitar music playing]
[Entin] Not only was she close
with his parents.
but she was close with
his siblings
and his nieces and nephews.
People are creating brand new
ways of living and working.
So it makes complete sense
that Gabby decides
to focus her love
of travel and adventure
into building a career
as a social media influencer.
[camera clicks]
[keyboard clacking]
[Entin] An influencer
is someone who is trying to
build a following online.
Many of them are trying to
monetize it and make money.
Gabby was clearly trying to
make money.
I believe she really
wanted to inspire people.
I think that's just
who she was.
And it was easy
to gravitate towards that.
You know. good people
recognize good people.
And Gabby was a good person.
Gabby finally got to a point
where she felt confident
in who she was
on her social media.
She seemed more aware
of what she wanted
out of her life
and how she was going to
get it.
[whimsical music playing]
[Eboni Williams] By the fall.
Brian and Gabby
had been dating
about seven months.
So they decide
they're going to drive
to California together.
So they decide
they're going to drive
to California together.
It'll be a ton of fun.
but it'll also allow Gabby
to test drive the social media
influencer thing.
[Brent Shavnore]
She was promoting
healthy eating. clean living.
not polluting the environment.
going out. being free
and away from the daily
distraction we have in life.
[Williams] So now they take
their first cross country
trip together.
They do it in Gabby's car
and she's having
the time of her life.
They do it in Gabby's car
and she's having
the time of her life.
They go back
and Gabby buys a van
for her and Brian to have
for their next trip
and live out of.
She and Brian renovate it.
they're super excited.
They're gonna make
an amazing trip together.
-[Gabby Petito exclaims] Yes!
-[Brian Laundrie] Oh my God.
-You got it.
-[chuckles] Oh my God.
[Williams] And then.
they get engaged.
Gabby's posting
on social media.
she's really excited
about the engagement.
And they're gonna live out of
this tiny van and go across
the country together.
Have they really
thought this through?
[Liz Sollis] I think
most of us just want
to be loved. right?
I don't think any one of us
get into any relationship
under the thought process
that we're gonna end up
controlled. depressed.
abused. isolated.
I don't think
anyone picks that.
Survivors and victims.
for the most part.
they still want to focus
on the positives.
I think that Gabby
was the most hopeless romantic
I'd pretty much ever met.
I think that she just
wanted it so bad
that um...
[indistinct radio]
[tearfully] I mean.
she ended up
sacrificing her life for it.
[tearfully] I mean.
she ended up
sacrificing her life for it.
[pleasant music playing]
[Vick] In July 2021.
Gabby Petito
and Brian Laundrie
pack up Gabby's van.
heading west to hit
a checklist of national parks
in Colorado. Utah and Wyoming.
I love the van.
For the first few weeks.
the couple drive and camp
and document
their van life experience
with the goal of turning this
into a career.
Me and Brian just got up
and got ready.
made the bed in the tent.
Like. wow. I wish
I could have done this
when I was their age.
this incredible adventure.
Even everything in the van
looked like it had
its perfect little place.
And I think
she was doing that to try
to build this following.
I mean. she had the equipment
she needed.
She had a drone.
she had the camera.
she had the laptop.
hoping that she could document
more of this trip.
[Carpenter] They were going
on this journey
that people dream of going on
with their significant other.
And they were
making it happen.
-[rain pattering]
-Oh my God!
The tent is just
coming in on me.
The wind is so bad.
I think what stood out
about Gabby
is what she was doing
just felt so wholesome.
You look at her video
and her Instagram.
It was focused on travel.
It was focused on adventure.
And I think that's something
that people connected with.
[laughing]
[Vick] But there's
a stark contrast
between Gabby's online persona
and Brian's.
It seemed to me like
she was definitely
the more upbeat one.
at least online and visibly.
I didn't get that sense
from Brian Laundries's
social media posts.
[Allen-Emrich]
Brian's posts on social media
were way more dark.
[Allen-Emrich]
Brian's posts on social media
were way more dark.
Artwork that he drew.
it was dark.
It was in a totally different
place than where Gabby was.
It was not light and airy
the way Gabby is.
It's two different worlds.
And for her. it was rainbows
and butterflies and sunshine.
His material is dark.
Gabby's calling her mom
every day or every other day
and she and Brian are both
posting regular updates.
It is really nice
and sunny today.
We've been lucky so far
at all the places
we've stayed.
[Vick] They used an app
called The Dyrt
that shows exactly
where you're camping.
So. online followers are able
to follow your journey
step by step.
Brian's stretching.
doing some morning yoga.
It definitely made me happy
to see that she got to
experience all those things.
It definitely made me happy
to see that she got to
experience all those things.
She wanted to help people.
She liked to
make people smile.
[whimsical music playing]
[Williams] So how social media
influencers make their money
is through sponsorships.
And until you get
that following count up.
you've got no income
and you're essentially living
off your savings.
I'm sure they were
trying to strategize
about how to make their money
last as long as possible.
I mean. it was a long trip.
[Shavnore] Being a social
media influencer
is a massive commitment.
It's not easy. It takes
consistency. constant posting.
Then. you have to deal with
the struggles of your van
not working.
keeping it clean.
finding a place to sleep.
Extremely challenging
situation for Gabby and Brian.
just not on a financial level.
but emotional level too.
[suspenseful music playing]
By the end of July.
the near constant cheery posts
become more sporadic
and people start to wonder
if something's wrong.
Only four posts appeared
on Gabby's Instagram account
in August.
And the last one said.
"Happy Halloween."
Not so strange.
except it was posted
on August 25th.
So Gabby's followers
start to wonder
if something's amiss.
[Carpenter]
I think that this was
the first picture that I saw
that made me kind of wonder
what was going on.
People thought that it was
not posted by her
or taken at a different time.
And Gabby isn't just absent
from social media.
She's no longer giving
her family updates
from the road.
Gabby's parents start
to get worried
when she wasn't responsive.
[tense music playing]
And then. Brian Laundrie
comes back
to his parents' house
in North Port. Florida.
in her van without her.
Gabby Petito's parents
were reaching out
to the Laundries saying.
"We haven't heard from Gabby.
Where is Gabby?
We hear Brian is back
in Florida.
What the heck is going on?"
And they get ignored.
The Laundries
won't take their calls.
won't respond
to their text messages.
The Laudries retained
an attorney
and that attorney says.
"Stay silent.
Don't talk to anyone."
[somber music playing]
[Allen-Emrich] Nicole Schmidt.
Gabby's mother.
reported her missing
then said. "My daughter speaks
to me everyday
or every other day.
We don't go more than two days
without talking."
[Vick] So Gabby's mom
reports her missing
to the police
in Suffolk County. New York.
But when they check with
their counterparts in Florida.
the Laundries refuse
to talk to the cops as well.
It's bizarre.
What are they hiding?
[tense music swelling]
Police all across the country
are searching for any clues
related to
Gabby's disappearance.
Her devastated family
says they haven't heard
from her since late August.
We love her very much.
We miss her
and we want her to come home.
[crowd chanting]
Where is Gabby?
[Entin] I was one of the first
reporters to get there.
It wasn't like this was
just a missing person
where. you know. a family
gives you two photos
and that's all you have.
From the very beginning.
it was easy to connect
to the story
because there were
so many images out there.
[Caroline Chapman]
I'm a journalist and I work
at Buckrail News
in Jackson Hole. Wyoming.
Gabby Petito's social media
presence made this story
a compelling story.
[Entin] I think people
became kind of obsessed
with figuring out
what happened
from the very beginning.
Where is Gabby?
...in her backyard.
Let me tell you...
[Williams] And then. we see
the internet just blow up
with all sorts
of wild stories and theories.
Brian Laundrie's cryptic
Pinterest posts
and what do they mean.
[Swoop] And she uses
hashtags in the posts
that she's never used before.
And you're really trying to
figure out Brian.
what type of person Brian is.
I feel like this is something
significant to look at.
The police have one goal:
find Gabby.
[tense music playing]
My name's Phillip Smith.
I'm a detective
with the Jackson
Police Department.
We had had a
what we call an ATL
or an attempt to locate.
We got a phone call
from a detective in Florida.
And he had some information
about a credit card
or a debit card being used
in Jackson.
[Chapman] Credit card records
show Gabby Petito's car
buying gas
on August 27th near
Grand Teton National Park.
[Det. Smith] So. we start
to lay out a timeline
trying to narrow down
when and where
Gabby and Brian were.
My team all that week
went through countless
hours of videos
establishing that timeline.
My team went to the Shell
gas station and businesses
surrounding that area
and started gathering videos.
[Williams] And after combing
through hundreds of hours
of surveillance footage...
The police finally
spot the van.
[Det. Smith] The camera
showed us the van
turning into Whole Foods.
That's where we verified
that the van we had
was Gabby Petito's van
because we saw them on video
getting out of the van
and walking into the store.
[Vick] What's really
mind-blowing about
this footage from Whole Foods
is that it's likely
the last video image
ever recorded of Gabby Petito.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Det. Smith] They kind of
wandered around a bit.
looking at the store's goods.
[Sollis] They are definitely
together and yet not together
as they're going
through the store.
They are maintaining a...
A distance pretty steadily.
And her arms were...
Were crossed.
So perhaps crossing the arms
provided her
a little bit of comfort
and it also might have
provided her a little bit
of distance from him.
It was a way perhaps to...
To say like.
"Hey. I'm protecting me."
[Det. Smith] I didn't see
anything purchased.
Uh. were they short on cash?
I don't know.
And then. they left.
[Chapman] The documentation
from surveillance
was crucial in this case
because it allowed
law enforcement
to track their whereabouts
which is much to the benefit
of eventually finding her.
There was information
that we learned
there might have been
an incident earlier in the day
at a restaurant.
Merry Piglets.
A detective of mine and I
interviewed the manager
of the restaurant
and learned that
Gabby and Brian
were allegedly there
and had eaten lunch
around noon.
They then left
without paying for their bill.
A manager told me that someone
from the restaurant went out
and asked them. you know.
were they gonna pay.
They eventually paid the bill.
[Chapman] The behavior
that they presented
at Merry Piglets
[Chapman] The behavior
that they presented
at Merry Piglets
was clearly a sign
that something was awry
between the two of them.
[Sollis] It is understandable
for both Gabby and Brian
that if
their finances were low.
that could be
a huge stressor for them.
[Vick] As the investigation
progresses in Wyoming.
something happens that turns
everything around
both for law enforcement
and for Gabby's now growing
number of followers.
On September 20th.
police in Moab. Utah. released
audio of a 9-1-1 call.
On September 20th.
police in Moab. Utah. released
audio of a 9-1-1 call.
This call was placed
on August 12th.
which was two weeks
before Gabby and Brian
were last seen together
at Whole Foods.
[tense music playing]
[indistinct police radio]
The Moab Police Department
received a 9-1-1 call
from someone who had
observed an incident
on Main Street in Moab.
[Vick] Along with
the 9-1-1 audio.
Moab Police released
body cam footage
from a roadside incident
that followed the call.
[siren wails]
This footage would shed
a whole new light
on the case.
[Sollis]
The officers responded.
Did a great job in actually
being able to track them down.
[indistinct radio]
[Entin] When you think about
social media influencers.
there's always
this thought that.
"Gosh. they put on this show
to make it look
like everything is perfect."
[laughing]
[Entin] But when
that Moab video came out.
it was like everything changed
in that moment.
You saw a very.
very different side
of Brian Laundrie
and Gabby Petito.
[sniffles]
[crying]
[sobs]
[Vick] So. it looks like
the dispute was caused
because Brian got dirt
in the van.
and Gabby wanted to keep up
this picture-perfect image
of cleanliness
for her followers.
[Sollis] You definitely
could look at this
and you could see
that the situation
appears to have
far more emotional impact
on her than on him.
[chuckles]
[Allen-Emrich] He was
cool as a cucumber.
This man was just joking
with police. charismatic.
He made it seem
like Gabby's the one
who just goes over the top.
He made it seem
like Gabby's the one
who just goes over the top.
I would say a lot of people
who are abusers
are very good at.
when someone else is present.
putting on
a different appearance.
So. domestic violence
is 100% power and control.
Everything he did.
he stated he did
because he had to control her.
Once the body camera video
came out from Moab. um.
domestic violence survivors
from all over the world
really zeroed in on this case.
When I heard her talk
about him not believing in her
or thinking that
she could do anything...
...then I knew that
she was in a bad spot.
Brian keeping her
out of the van.
which was actually her van.
so that's like if you took it
and pretended
it was her house.
he was keeping her
out of her house.
So. that's an important factor
to consider.
So he felt he had
the power and the authority
to limit her access.
[Williams] Maybe the most
telling thing about the video
is that the 9-1-1 call
describes a man
slapping a woman.
But Gabby describes herself
as the aggressor.
Whether somebody's talking
to law enforcement
or a community member.
a family member.
about an abusive partner.
they are most likely going
to be a little protective
of that individual.
Again. it goes back
to domestic violence.
trying to blame herself
to a certain extent.
trying to protect him.
When someone is experiencing
abuse or violence
in their relationship.
they will definitely
take the blame.
They will definitely say.
"It's my fault.
because I did this."
and that's partly because
it's what they hear
all the time.
It's always your fault.
[Carpenter] The body cam
video was...
...a Gabby I'd never seen.
She was petrified.
Her voice. the way that
she was carrying herself.
that was terror.
I mean. it was.
that was hard to watch.
For Brian. I felt rage.
For Gabby. I felt...
...the deepest amount of fear.
Grabbing someone's face
to gain control over them.
that's not normal.
That's 100% indicative
of the fact that he's perhaps
strangled her in the past.
And that should have been
a red flag
for law enforcement.
[Vick] Despite the 9-1-1 call
saying that Brian
was the aggressor.
the police determine
that he's the one
who needs protection.
So Brian went and stayed
somewhere in Moab.
using Victim Services'
dollars...
...and Gabby stayed
in the van.
Some people may be
upset about that.
The reality is. is that
the way it was determined.
Brian. in this case.
at that time.
was the greater victim.
[radio chatter]
[Williams] When you look
at Gabby's Instagram
from that day.
you'll see a completely
different image
that she's presenting
to the world
from the very abusive one
that she's living.
[Allen-Emrich] It's shocking
that there are two people
on a rock. kissing.
and then. two hours later.
he's slapping her in the face.
[Chapman] Social media
presents the most romanticized
version of our lives possible.
and we choose not to present
the other side of things.
because they're not pretty
and they don't get likes.
People aren't attracted
to the ugly.
The ugly was what was going on
in their relationship.
and unfortunately.
it led to her death.
[crowd shouting]
[man] Where is Gabby.
Laundrie?
Where's Gabby?
[Williams] No one has heard
from Gabby Petito
in two weeks.
She was last seen on video
on August 27. 2021.
[newscaster] The 22-year-old
Long Island native
was on a cross-country
road trip
with her boyfriend.
Brian Laundrie.
before she suddenly vanished.
[Williams] On September 15th.
Brian Laundrie is named
as a person of interest
in Gabby's disappearance.
And Gabby's follower count
has skyrocketed to 165.000.
Now. the case has
caught the attention
of the general public.
[man] Put your loving arms
around her...
[Vick] By now.
not a lot of people
are holding out hope.
But maybe Brian
just abandoned her
out there in Wyoming.
and she survived so far.
waiting for someone
to find her.
[Carr] My name is Matt Carr.
and I'm the Sheriff
of Teton County. Wyoming.
There was a search going on.
It was really honed down
to the fact that likely.
she was in our area.
We were getting fed
little bits and pieces
of information
from other agencies
across the country.
as far as a potential lead
that had come about
from an app called
The Dyrt app.
You hike or you camp.
and then they GPS locate you.
We started off kinda
where Gabby's last
known location was.
according to The Dyrt app.
Within Bridger-Teton
National Forest.
um. there's an area
called the Spread Creek
Dispersed Camping Area.
and it was within that area
where we had
the last known location
of Gabby Petito.
[Ciocarlan] My name
is Tim Ciocarlan.
and I was. um.
incident command
for the Gabby Petito search.
We had rain and snow
and strong winds
throughout that whole search.
so time was of the essence.
We knew that
if we couldn't find
Miss Petito...
...she might be gone
till the next spring.
because winter was coming.
[Vick] The clock
is literally ticking.
Horse-mounted patrol
was assigned to go
to Spread Creek.
search the south side
of the creek.
[Carr] Given the size
of the area.
and the topography
in Teton County.
it certainly was gonna be
a daunting task
to try to locate her.
[Roundy] We search
along the south side
of the river bed.
across the creek.
and then start searching
the north side.
And I think it was close
to 11:30 or 12:30.
The first thing
that caught my eye
was that there was
a texture...
...that was inconsistent
with a natural texture.
When I first saw it...
...so. I had
this feeling of...
"Did we really
just find Gabby?
Is that really her?"
Yeah. It was Gabby's body.
She'd been located.
She was laying on her side...
...almost in a peaceful way.
like she had just laid down.
put her hands under her head
and fell asleep.
But her body was positioned
in such a way
that her head is actually
laying downhill.
It's not a significant hill.
but I think it's human nature
that you're gonna lay
with your head uphill.
You don't wanna have blood
rushing to your head.
There was nothing natural
about how she looked.
To me. it looked
like it was staged.
[Williams] That Brian
killed her and staged her body
and made it look
as if she had died
of natural causes.
and made it look
as if she had died
of natural causes.
all just leaving her there
for scavengers to devour.
was absolutely heartbreaking.
Earlier today. human remains
were discovered.
consistent with
the description
of Gabrielle "Gabby" Petito.
It was gut-wrenching.
[voice shaking]
It was sickening.
It was unfair.
It was heartbreaking.
[newscaster] A Wyoming
coroner's office confirming
the cause of death
of 22-year-old Gabby Petito.
When the cause of death
was revealed by the coroner.
it was
a devastating revelation.
The manner of death
of Gabrielle Venora Petito.
cause. death by strangulation.
and manner. uh. is homicide.
[woman] Tell the truth!
[people chanting]
Tell the truth!
We wanna bring closure
to the Petito family.
You need to come out
and tell us!
[all] Tell the truth!
[Entin] We were
basically camped out
on the neighbor's yard.
It was our assumption
that Brian Laundrie
was in the house.
So we were there.
thinking this guy could
walk out at any moment.
And then. all of the sudden.
we get word from the police
that Brian Laundrie
is missing.
-[man] Arrest Brian!
Arrest Brian!
-[woman] Get him!
The story took on
a whole new life of its own.
I mean. people were
just obsessed.
You had the whole country
looking for Brian Laundrie.
[newscaster] Police continue
the search for Brian Laundrie
in Florida's rugged
Carlton Reserve.
[Vick] On September 1st.
Brian Laundrie returned home
to Florida
in Gabby Petito's van.
without Gabby.
According to his parents.
two weeks later.
he leaves his parents' house
to go for a hike
at the nearby Carlton Reserve.
a huge swampland that's
teeming with alligators.
venomous snakes.
and wild pigs.
But that's the last
anyone sees of him.
[Entin] Brian was on the run.
And they were doing
this massive grid search.
helicopters. search dogs.
you name it...
...and they weren't
finding anything.
[newscaster] It's been
more than three weeks.
and still no sign
of Brian Laundrie.
[Vick] By late September.
Gabby's Instagram
follower count had
pushed past 1 million.
and once again. just like
with Gabby's disappearance.
social media goes wild
with crazy theories
about where Brian is.
I don't personally
think that Brian is
in the Carlton Reserve.
Last night. a man said that
he found a noose on a tree.
[Entin] People in Oregon
and California.
all the way
to the Appalachian Trail.
claiming. "I've seen
Brian Laundrie.
I've got photos."
There was a guy who said.
"I have him on my deer cam."
"My lead is Brian Laundrie's
father's friend.
I'm convinced
he's hiding in Mexico
where he can't be extradited
to the United States."
Theories from Brian
being a fed
to him having a clone...
People were saying
he was buried underground
in his parents' backyard.
being fed through a straw.
[Williams] I mean.
it was all completely crazy.
And then. out of nowhere.
Brian's parents finally decide
to speak up.
[Entin] Police were searching
the Carlton Reserve
for Brian Laundrie
for almost a month...
...because that is where
his parents said
that he last was.
And what was so strange
is Brian Laundrie's parents
went out one morning
to look for Brian.
and literally.
just within minutes.
they find items belonging
to Brian Laundrie.
[Williams] The parents contact
the police
and tell them
what area to focus on.
And after searching
everywhere else for weeks.
they almost immediately
find skeletal remains.
[newscaster]
Through a comparison
of dental records.
the FBI was able to confirm
that the remains found
were that of Brian Laundrie.
A backpack and a notebook
believed to have belonged
to Laundrie
was also found in the park.
[Entin] Everyone was waiting
for this notebook
that Brian Laundrie
had left behind.
and it was shocking
when we read it.
Brian makes up
a ridiculous story
that he had to kill Gabby
to put her out of her misery
from an injury.
[Entin] He wrote.
"When I pulled Gabby
out of the water.
she couldn't tell me
what hurt.
She had a small bump
on her forehead
that eventually got larger.
Her feet hurt. her wrist hurt.
but she was freezing.
shaking violently.
While carrying her.
she continually made
sounds of pain.
begging for an end
to her pain.
I ended her life.
I thought it was merciful.
that it is what she wanted.
but I see now
all the mistakes I made.
Please pick up
all of my things.
Gabby hated
people who litter."
I mean. she died
of blunt force trauma
and strangulation.
One second. you're talking
about how you committed
this mercy killing.
and then you're telling people
not to litter at the end?
Uh. just very strange
and bizarre.
[Williams] I think most folks
have a pretty good idea
about what happened
in Grand Teton National Park.
[Allen-Emrich] I believe
she says. "I'm done."
And once he heard that.
he was enraged.
He was angry.
angry enough to throttle her
and kill her.
[Vick] Some believe
that he staged her body
to make it seem like
she died of natural causes
in her sleep.
and then ran home
to his mom and dad.
After he did this.
he gets in her van
and he drove right back
to North Port. Florida.
pulled that van
into his parents' driveway.
uh. and didn't talk
to anybody.
And what happened
behind the scenes.
we still don't really know.
That's one
of the big mysteries.
[Vick] There's a kind of
tragic irony here.
Gabby Petito finally got
the kind of international fame
that most social media
influencers would
only dream of.
Over a million followers.
and a hashtag that was shared
a billion times.
But it came
at the cost of her life.
[Entin] It's really sad
that this was her dream
to grow this following...
[Entin] It's really sad
that this was her dream
to grow this following...
...and if only
she was alive now
to see how many
followers she had.
[Vick] Gabby's
social media pages
allowed anyone to see
what she posted
in the final days
before she went missing.
[Williams] The question
everybody wants to know...
What did the Laundries know?
Did they know
their son's intention?
Did they know that he was dead
the whole time?
This new civil lawsuit.
uh. has now been filed
by Gabby Petito's family.
uh. against
Brian Laundrie's family.
[Entin] The Petitos claim
that at that time.
uh. the Laundries knew
that Petito was dead.
that obviously. the search
was gonna be unsuccessful.
and that they weren't
telling anyone.
and that that caused
pain and suffering.
uh. to the Petito family.
[Vick] The Laundrie family
denies any wrongdoing.
[Williams] Whatever happens
in that case.
it's gonna bring more
attention to domestic violence
and the warning signs
to watch out for.
and that will be a good thing.
[Sollis] If you have concerns
that somebody is being abused.
if you can reach out to them
in a safe way. do so.
They may not. right away. want
to leave the relationship.
They may not even admit to you
that there are problems.
But be ready
to be there for them
when they're ready
to reach out.
[Vick] Hoping to help others.
the Petito family starts
the Gabby Petito Foundation.
whose mission is
to provide aid
to organizations that search
for missing persons
and to assist victims
of domestic violence.